Idempotent Reader (#185)
confluentinc/event-streaming-patterns: docs/event-processing/idempotent-reader.md

2. *Incorrect Application Logic*: An [Event Source](../event-source/event-source.md) could mistakenly produce the same event multiple times, populating the [Event Stream](../event-stream/event-stream.md) with multiple distinct Events from the perspective of the [Event Streaming Platform](../event-stream/event-streaming-platform.md). For example, imagine a bug in the Event Source that writes a customer payment Event twice, instead of just once. The Event Streaming Platform knows nothing of the business logic, so it cannot differentiate between the two Events and instead considers them as two distinct payment Events.

## Problem
How can an application deal with duplicate Events when reading from an Event Stream?

## Solution
![idempotent-reader](../img/idempotent-reader.svg)

This can be addressed using exactly-once semantics (EOS), including native support for transactions and support for idempotent clients.
EOS allows [Event Streaming Applications](../event-processing/event-processing-application.md) to process data without loss or duplication, ensuring that computed results are always accurate. 

> [Idempotent Writing](idempotent-writer.md) by the [Event Source](../event-source/event-source.md) is the first step in solving this problem. Idempotent Writing provides strong, exactly-once delivery guarantees of the producer's Events, and removes operational failures as a cause of duplicate Events.

Author: @miguno I added the word `written` to clarify scope of this sentence (actually this particular paragraph is about writing).

On the reading side, in [Event Processors](../event-processing/event-processor.md) and [Event Sinks](../event-sink/event-sink.md), an Idempotent Reader can be configured to read only committed transactions. This prevents Events within incomplete transactions from being read, providing the reader isolation from operational writer failures. Keep in mind that idempotency means that the reader's business logic must be able to process the same consumed Event multiple times, without generating side-effects or otherwise incorrectly updating its internal state. 

> Duplicates caused by incorrect application logic are best resolved by fixing the application's logic. In cases where this is not possible, such as when event generation is triggered by external processes, the next best option is to tag duplicate events with tracking IDs. A tracking ID should be a field that is unique to the logical event, such as an event key or request ID. The consumer can then read the tracking ID, cross-reference it against an internal state store of IDs it has already processed, and discard the event if necessary.

Author: Good pointClarified in latest commit

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: Unlike the Idempotent Writer pattern, this pattern doesn't say a word about the plain consumer clients (= no ksqlDB, no KStreams).

Author: @miguno please see latest commit

To handle operational failures, you can [enable EOS in your Kafka Streams application](https://www.confluent.io/blog/enabling-exactly-once-kafka-streams/). A Streams application using EOS will atomically update its consumer offsets, state store changelog topics, reparition topics, and output topics within a single transaction.

> In the streaming database [ksqlDB](https://ksqldb.io), you can enable exactly-once stream processing to execute a read-process-write operation exactly one time. This can be done by configuring the processing guarantee with the following setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the streaming database [ksqlDB](https://ksqldb.io), you can [enable EOS](https://docs.ksqldb.io/en/latest/operate-and-deploy/exactly-once-semantics/#exactly-once-semantics) similarly, with the following setting:
```

```
processing.guarantee="exactly_once"
``` 

> To handle incorrect application logic, again, first try to eliminate the source of duplication from the code. If that is not an option, you can assign a tracking ID to each Event based off of the contents of the Event, enabling consumers to detect duplicates for themselves. This requires that each consumer application maintain an internal state store for tracking the Events' unique IDs, and this store will vary in size depending on the Event count and the period for which the consumer must guard against duplicates. This option requires both additional disk usage and processing power for inserting and validating Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle incorrect application logic, again, first try to eliminate the source of duplication from the code. If that is not an option, you can assign a tracking ID to each event based off of the contents of the event, enabling consumers to detect duplicates for themselves. This requires that each consumer application maintain an internal state store for tracking the events' unique IDs, and this store will vary in size depending on the event count and the period for which the consumer must guard against duplicates. This option requires both additional disk usage and processing power for inserting and validating events.
```

Reviewer: No pun intended, but this is (almost) a duplicate from the previous "Solution" section.

> For a subset of business cases, it may also be possible to design the consumer processing logic to be idempotent. For example, in a simple ETL where a database is the [Event Sink](../event-sink/event-sink.md), the duplicate Events can be deduplicated by the database during an `upsert` on the Event ID as primary key. Idempotent business logic also enables your application to read from [Event Streams](../event-stream/event-stream.md) that aren't strictly free of duplicates, or from historic streams that may not have had EOS available when they were created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a subset of business cases, it may also be possible to design the consumer processing logic to be idempotent. For example, in a simple ETL where a database is the [Event Sink](../event-sink/event-sink.md), the duplicate events can be deduplicated by the database during an `upsert` on the event ID as primary key. Idempotent business logic also enables your application to read from [Event Streams](../event-stream/event-stream.md) that aren't strictly free of duplicates, or from historic streams that may not have had EOS available when they were created.
```

Duplicates caused by incorrect application logic from upstream sources are best resolved by fixing the application's logic (i.e., fixing the root cause). In cases where this is not possible, such as when events are generated outside of our control, the next best option is to embed a tracking ID into the event. A tracking ID should be a field that is unique to the logical event, such as an event key or request ID. The consumer can then read the tracking ID, cross-reference it against an internal state store of IDs it has already processed, and discard the event if necessary.

## Implementation
To configure an Idempotent Reader to read only committed transactions, set the following parameter:

```
isolation.level="read_committed"
```

> In your Kafka Streams application, to handle operational failures, you can [enable EOS](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/streams/developer-guide/config-streams.html#processing-guarantee). Within a single transaction, a Kafka Streams application using EOS will atomically update its consumer offsets, its state stores including their changelog topics, its repartition topics, and its output topics.

Reviewer: Please add how to enable EOS in KStreams:

```
processing.guarantee= exactly_once_v2
```
Unfortunately, I don't know how to create a suggestion for this, as the backticks for the code above interferes with the syntax for the GH suggestion.

Reviewer: Btw, I am checking why https://kafka.apache.org/28/documentation/streams/developer-guide/config-streams.html#processing-guarantee says the value should be `exactly_once_beta`. IIRC the `*_v2` name supercedes the `*_beta` name in the latest Kafka, but I have to double-check.

Author: Added

Reviewer: I don't see the code block with the setting for KStreams? Once added, feel free to merge this PR.

Author: @miguno the same config is for both Kafka Streams and ksqlDB, so I reworded and reordered the configuration parameter to make it clearer.
